# S3 - Managing S3 buckets and objects with `python SDK` <a name="s3"></a>

This section covers managing S3 buckets and objects using `Python` and the `Boto3 SDK`.

## Prerequisites

The demo files are located in the `s3` folder.

- Python
- AWS python SDK - boto3

### Installing Python

To install Python, you can visit the official Python website and download the latest version of Python for your operating system: https://www.python.org/downloads/

Follow the installation instructions for your operating system to complete the installation.

### Downloading Boto3

Boto3 is a Python SDK for AWS that provides a low-level and high-level interface to AWS services. You can download and install it using pip, which is a package manager for Python.

To download and install boto3, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Run the following command to install boto3:
```
pip install boto3
```

This will download and install the latest version of boto3 and its dependencies.

Note: If you are using a virtual environment, make sure to activate it before running this command.

Once boto3 is installed, you can use it in your Python scripts to interact with AWS services, including S3.


## Demo script

The `s3/demo_s3.py` script provides a command-line interface for managing an S3 bucket. The available subcommands are:

- `create-bucket`: Create a new S3 bucket.
- `delete-bucket`: Delete an S3 bucket.
- `upload-file`: Upload a file or folder to an S3 bucket.
- `delete-file`: Delete a file from an S3 bucket.
- `generate-url`: Generate a presigned URL for a file in an S3 bucket.
- `web`: Configure an S3 bucket as a website.

To use the script, run it from the command line with the desired subcommand and arguments. For example:
```
python demo_s3.py create-bucket my-bucket --region eu-central-1
```

### Required subcommands for this demo step

- `create-bucket`: Create a new S3 bucket. This subcommand requires a bucket name as a positional argument.
```
python demo_s3.py create-bucket <my-bucket-name>
```

- `upload-file`: Upload a file or folder to an S3 bucket. This subcommand requires a file or folder path and a bucket name as positional arguments. Use the `--public` option to make the uploaded file publicly accessible.
```
python demo_s3.py upload-file <file-name> <my-bucket-name> --public
```

- `web`: Configure an S3 bucket as a website. This subcommand requires a bucket name and an index document name as positional arguments. Use the `--error-document` option to specify a custom error document.
```
python demo_s3.py web <my-bucket-name> <index.html> --error-document <error.html>
```

The demo requires uploading two files to the bucket: `web/index.html` and `web/error.html`. These files can be uploaded using the `upload-file` subcommand.

These files are located in the `s3/web` directory.

After the files are uploaded turn your bucket into a static website with the `web` subcommand.